Add `expiring-todo-comments` rule (#302)
sindresorhus/eslint-plugin-unicorn: docs/rules/expiring-todo-comments.md

// TODO [>1, >2]: Multiple package versions won't work.

// TODO [+react]: When you install `react`, refactor to use it.
// TODO [-popura]: When you uninstall `popura` do some stuff.

// TODO [read-pkg@>1]: When `read-pkg` version is >1 don't forget to do this.
// TODO [read-pkg@>=5.1.1]: When `read-pkg` version is >=5.1.1 don't forget to do that.

// TODO [engines node>=8]: Use async/await!

// TODO: Add unicorns.
```

## Pass

```js
// TODO [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?'
// FIXME [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO (lubien) [2200-12-12]: Too long... Can you feel it?
// FIXME [2200-12-25] (lubien): Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO [-read-pkg]: We actually use this. If we remove this package I'll error.
// TODO [+popura]: I think we wont need a broken package.

// TODO [semver@>1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.
// TODO [semver@>=1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.

// TODO [2200-12-25, +popura, semver>1000]: Combo.

// TODO [engines node>100]: Just you wait for this version.

/*
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Yet
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Another
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Way
 */
```

## Options

> ### ignoreDatesOnPR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ignoreDatesOnPullRequests
```

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: @lubien 	Looks like you by mistake undid your change

Author: Oh. Might have happened while I switched machines. Just a sec.

Author: If anything just let me know please :)

> # Add conditions to TODO comments to make them error

Reviewer: Whether it *errors* or *warns* is up to the user, so the title needs some improvement.

Author: Done

Makes it possible to pass arguments to TODO and FIXME comments to trigger errors.

This rule also implements [`eslint/no-warning-comments`](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-warning-comments) behavior so you should disable that in favor of using this.

For projects with legacy branches, such as long term supported older versions, there might be situations where you fix TODOs in the master branch but on the other branches you leave it missing. Choose carefully which projects you would want this feature.

Supported conditions:

> - `[YYYY-MM-DD]` to define a due date.

Reviewer: Should mention that the dates are UTC.

Author: Done

- `[>1]` or `[>=2]` to expire at some version (from package.json). No whitespace.
- `[+package]` or `[-package]` to expire when you add/remove a package.
- `[package@>1]` or `[package@>=2]` to expire when a package hits some version. No whitespace.

> - `[engines node>8]` or `[engines node>=8]` to expire when package bump supported engines. Don't use spaces between the comparison.

Reviewer: I think each of the conditions here should mention some use-cases for it. It might not be apparent to users what they could use them for.

Author: Done

> - `[engines node>8]` or `[engines node>=8]` to expire when package bump supported engines. Don't use spaces between the comparison.

Reviewer: I think we should make this:

```suggestion
- `[engines:node>8]` or `[engines:node>=8]` to expire when package bump supported engines. Don't use spaces between the comparison.
```

So completely remove whitespace from the conditions.

Author: Should whitespaces around `:` be valid?

1. `[engines : node>8]`
2. `[engines: node>8]`
3. `[engines :node>8]`
4. Multiple whitespaces

Author: Using it now

> - `[engines node>8]` or `[engines node>=8]` to expire when package bump supported engines. Don't use spaces between the comparison.

Reviewer: Having the word `or` here makes it sound like only those two semver notation are supported.

Author: Actually it is.

On my first draft I used also '=', '<' and '<='. Is this desirable?

Reviewer: Nah, we can keep it simple. I would just make it clear with a sentence, that while it looks like we support all of semver (which I just assumed when seeing semver syntax), we only support ...

Author: Done

Info:

> - Multiple conditions can be separated by comma: `[YYYY-MM-DD, +foo-package, engines node>=8, bar-package@>=2]`.

Reviewer: Don't forget to keep the docs in sync with changes.

Author: Sure. I was wrapping up code before going for the docs.

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: There are some Grammer mistakes but will wait for @sindresorhus to review first.

Author: I tried to use a grammar checking tool but I knew we'd miss some, sorry 😋

If no proper argument is found, you'll be notified that the TODO is useless (`no-warning-comments` behavior).

## Fail

```js
// TODO [2000-01-01]: I'll fix this next week.

// TODO [>1]: If your package.json version is >1.
// TODO [>=1]: If your package.json version is >=1.
// TODO [>1, >2]: Multiple package versions won't work.

// TODO [+react]: When you install `react`, refactor to use it.
// TODO [-popura]: When you uninstall `popura` do some stuff.

// TODO [read-pkg@>1]: When `read-pkg` version is >1 don't forget to do this.
// TODO [read-pkg@>=5.1.1]: When `read-pkg` version is >=5.1.1 don't forget to do that.

// TODO [engines node>=8]: Use async/await!

// TODO: Add unicorns.
```

## Pass

```js
// TODO [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?'
// FIXME [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO (lubien) [2200-12-12]: Too long... Can you feel it?
// FIXME [2200-12-25] (lubien): Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO [-read-pkg]: We actually use this. If we remove this package I'll error.
// TODO [+popura]: I think we wont need a broken package.

// TODO [semver@>1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.

> // TODO [semver@>=1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.

Reviewer: Use another package than `semver` for all the examples here. It can cause confusion and some might think it just indicates that it's a semver version, not the package. Use `lodash` instead. It's known by everyone.

Author: Done

```

Argument versions should be [semver](https://semver.org/) compatible such as: `1.2.45`, `5.3`, `1`.

Only `node` engine is supported by this condition.

Supported comparisons are `>` and `>=`. Comparison must have a `@` before such as `@>` and `@>=`.

### Dependency Presence

As a Node.js developer, you probably already know about package.json [dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#dependencies) and [devDependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#devdependencies). This condition works over the presence or absence of dependencies in both fields.

You may use `+` to trigger when the dependency is added and `-` when the dependency is removed.

```js
// TODO [-vue-function-api]: When we remove `vue-function-api` we should refactor this.
// FIXME [+read-pkg] If we use this package we don't need to use this function below.
// XXX @lubien [+react, -jquery]: We can use react for this widget instead of JQuery.
```

This condition is really useful when the code should be looked upon changes in dependencies that are known to happen such as `vue-function-api` that will eventually be part of `vue` itself.

### Dependency Version

> Another way to make conditions over dependencies is to look upon versions. This is useful when developers know that further versions of dependencies make changes that impact on their code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another way to make conditions over dependencies is to look upon versions. This is useful when developers know that changes in further versions of dependencies will impact their code.
```

// TODO [read-pkg@>=5.1.1]: When `read-pkg` version is >= 5.1.1 don't forget to do that

// TODO [engine:node@>=8]: Whoops we are already supporting it!

// TODO: Add unicorns.
```

## Pass

```js
// TODO [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?'
// FIXME [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO (lubien) [2200-12-12]: You can add something before the arguments.
// TODO @lubien [2200-12-12]: You can add something before the arguments.
// FIXME [2200-12-25] (lubien): You can add something after the arguments, before the colon.
// TODO [2200-12-12] No colon after argument.

// TODO [+react]: Refactor this when we use React.
// TODO [-lodash]: If we remove lodash we need to change this.

// TODO [lodash@>10]: Lodash has a new way to do this, when we bump version let's use it.
// TODO [lodash@>=10]: Lodash has a new way to do this, when we bump version let's use it.

// TODO [2200-12-25, +popura, lodash@>10]: Combo.

// TODO [engine:node@>12]: When we bump version we can use import/export.

/*
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Yet
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Another
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Way
 */
```

## Options

### ignoreDatesOnPullRequests

> Disables time checks during pull requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Disables `Expiry Date` checks during pull requests.
```

Reviewer 3: This shouldn't use backticks since `Expiry Date` is not code.

> Sometimes developers may send [Pull Requests](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) right on time when TODO expiry dates are triggered. This will mean that their code would fail to pass linting and would cause a false positive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes developers may send [Pull Requests](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) at a time when TODO expiry dates are triggered. This means that their code would fail to pass linting, causing a false positive.
```

# Add expiration conditions to TODO comments

Makes it possible to pass arguments to TODO, FIXME and XXX comments to trigger ESLint.

From [ESLint's documentation](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-warning-comments):

> Developers often add comments to code which is not complete or needs review.

TODO comments are useful when a piece of code needs some work.
Unfortunately these can be easily forgotten as it's easy to forget to
track them, leaving dangling tasks to be found at later random moments.

> With this rule a TODO can have right from the beginning a condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this rule, a TODO can have a condition right from the beginning
```

Author: Done

> to define it's lifespan. When the condition is met, ESLint will take care

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to define its lifespan. When the condition is met, ESLint will take care
```

Author: Done

of reporting that there's work to be done.

> This rule also define that **there must be no TODO comment without conditions** so that you should take more care before simply adding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule also defines that **there must be no TODO comment without conditions** so that you should take more care before simply adding
```

Author: Done

tasks with no life expectancy. For more information read the
section [`eslint/no-warning-comments`](#disallow-warning-comments-no-warning-comments) below.

Conditions quick overview:

- Expire after a **specific date**.

> - Expire when **package.json** reaches a specific **version**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expire when **your package** (package.json) reaches a specific **version**.
```

Author: Done

- Expire when a package.json **`engines`** property reaches a specific **version**.
- Expire when you **install/uninstall** a specific **package**.
- Expire when a **package** reaches a specific **version**.

## Conditions

### Expiry Date

> Using a date as condition, a TODO will only work as longs as this date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a date as condition, a TODO will only work as long as this date
```

Author: Done

is not met. This is specially useful when you either know when the
action should take place or simply want to set boundaries for yourself.

```js
// TODO [2019-11-15]: Refactor this code before the sprint ends.
// TODO (@lubien) [2019-07-18]: When John deliver his code. I can reuse it.
// TODO [2019-08-10] I must refactor this for sure before I deliver.
```

Dates are [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Dates) and
use [UTC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) timezone.

Multiple dates on the same TODO are not valid and will be reported.

> There's no meaning in having two dates as the closest one will always be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's no point in having two dates as the closest one will always be
```

Author: Done

> the one to report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the one that is reported.
```

Author: Done

### Package Version

> If you're working on a NPM package, you should have a root level package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're working on a npm package, you should have a root level package.json
```

Author: Done

with a [`version`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#version) field

> as specified from NPM itself. This condition takes place under this value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as specified by npm. This condition takes place under this value.
```

Author: Done

> By assigning a condition to compare a package.json `version` the TODO will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By assigning a condition to compare a package.json `version`, the TODO will
```

Author: Done

be the one to trigger the report.

### Engine Version

On package.json you can specify some [engines](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#engines)
that your code works on. With this setting you can specify both "node" and "npm" versions you can
work on.

With that in mind, this condition is triggered as soon as package.json engine reaches the target version.
This is particularly useful for maintainers that strive for compatibility but have plans
to the future where some feature will be widely available and the could drop support for
older versions.

Imagine you want to use async/await but for now you support node versions that don't have it?
Maybe npm will have a feature that could be useful later but for now you have to keep support
for older version users?

```js
// TODO [engine:node@>=8]: We can use async/await now.
// FIXME [engine:node@>=20.0.0] Hey, node can use import/export now, we should refactor.
// XXX @lubien [engine:npm@>4.0]: Now npm have [feature] we should use it.
```

Argument versions should be [semver](https://semver.org/) compatible such as: `1.2.45`, `5.3`, `1`.

### Dependency Presence

> As a developer using NodeJS you should be know to package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a developer using Node.js, you should be know to package.json
```

Not sure what you're trying to say here.

Author: Rephrased

> As a Node.js developer, you probably already know about package.json dependencies and devDependencies.

Author: Done

useful when developers know that further versions of dependencies make changes that
impact on their code.

```js
// TODO [vue@>=3]: Refactor to function API when it's stable.
// FIXME [cerebro@>0.10.0] This is a quickfix until cerebro fix this.
// XXX [popura@>=2.0.0] This API is deprecated so we should not use it by then.
```

Argument versions should be [semver](https://semver.org/) compatible such as: `1.2.45`, `5.3`, `1`.

### Combinations

Any combination of rules is possible as long as you separate by commas. Each
condition **trigger an individual report.**

```js
// TODO [+react, -jquery]: We can use react for this widget instead of JQuery.
// TODO [2019-07-15, +react]: Refactor this if we install React or if we reach that date.
// TODO [-vue-function-api, vue@>=3]: Now we should use Vue native function API.
```

## Disallow Warning Comments (no-warning-comments)

This rule implements [`eslint/no-warning-comments`](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-warning-comments).

The sole difference is that first we check for **valid conditions**
to apply this rule. If no valid condition is met we fallback to
`eslint/no-warning-comments` and you'll see something like

> `Unexpected 'todo' comment.`

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should add a setting to disable this. Imagine you would want condition TODO comment to error, but normal TODO comments to just warn. Unfortunately, there's no way for rules to force a report to be a warning. So the best we can do is to allow disabling it, so users can use the `eslint/no-warning-comments` rule in addition with a warning level.

Author: How about: `allowWarningComments`? Defaults to true?

Author: Done

The reason behind is that now that you have a powerful rule to make sure there are
no stray TODOs on your code, you should strive for best pratices. Don't just put
TODOs and leave then live forever. Define conditions to justify the presence of
warning comments.

With that in mind, **you should disable** that ESLint rule in favor of this one
as you will get the same behavior and more.

## Legacy Branches

> Although this rule works just fine when you maintain a master branch it gets trickier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this rule works just fine when you maintain a `master` branch, it gets trickier
```

Author: Done

when you have legacy branches that happen to have unclosed TODOs.

> Assume you maintain a master branch at a version such as 10 and always keep working on it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine you maintain a `master` branch at a version such as 10 and always keep working on it
```

Author: Done

- You can use either `TODO`, `FIXME`, or `XXX`. You can change
  these using options. (See [options.terms](#terms)).
- TODOs may have any string before arguments. Really useful
  when you want to highlight more information such as author name
  like `TODO (lubien) [2019-05-30]` or `TODO @lubien [2019-05-30]`.
- TODOs may or may not have a colon before the message such as
  `TODO [...]: message` or `TODO [...] message`.
- If no proper argument is found, you'll be notified that the TODO is useless (See [`eslint/no-warning-comments`](#disallow-warning-comments-no-warning-comments)).

## Fail

```js
// TODO [2000-01-01]: I'll fix this next week.
// TODO [2000-01-01, 2001-01-01]: Multiple dates won't work.

// TODO [>1]: If your package.json version is > 1
// TODO [>=1]: If your package.json version is >= 1
// TODO [>1, >2]: Multiple package versions won't work

// TODO [+already-have-pkg]: Since we already have it, this reports.
// TODO [-we-dont-have-this-package]: Since we don't have, trigger report.

// TODO [read-pkg@>1]: When `read-pkg` version is > 1 don't forget to do this
// TODO [read-pkg@>=5.1.1]: When `read-pkg` version is >= 5.1.1 don't forget to do that

> // TODO [engine:@node>=8]: Whoops we are already supporting it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// TODO [engine:node@>=8]: Whoops we are already supporting it!
```

Author: Done

# Add conditions to TODO comments to make them error

Makes possible to pass arguments to TODO and FIXME comments to trigger errors.

Currently supporting:

> * `[YYYY-MM-DD]` to define a due date.

Reviewer 4: What about supporting date ranges (e.g. `[startDate-endDate]`)? It could be useful in some cases.

Reviewer: > It could be useful in some cases.

What cases?

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure, but others might come up with some 😅

Anyways, the rule looks good to me overall (aside for the suggestions you made above and other minor implementation improvements).

Author: I hope you don't mind I mark this a solved.

> * `[> 1]` or `[>= 2]` to expire at some version (from package.json).

Reviewer: I think we should require there to be no whitespace here to reduce ambiguity. Making it stricter also leaves the door open for other conditions in the future.
```suggestion
* `[>1]` or `[>=2]` to expire at some version (from package.json).
```

Author: Agreed

Author: Fixed that. Working on the next one.

Author: https://github.com/sindresorhus/eslint-plugin-unicorn/pull/302/commits/4955129775d322f71103a429fd702ca3b5ede7be

* `[+package]` or `[-package]` to expire when you add/remove a package.

> * `[package > 1]` or `[package >= 2]` to expire when a package hits some version.

Reviewer: This should use the npm install syntax for versions.
```suggestion
* `[package@>1]` or `[package@>=2]` to expire when a package hits some version.
```

Author: Fixed that one now

Author: https://github.com/sindresorhus/eslint-plugin-unicorn/pull/302/commits/024c8657e923a30832cc9c82fc87628ec9952fde

# Add conditions to TODO comments to make them error

Makes it possible to pass arguments to TODO and FIXME comments to trigger errors.

This rule also implements [`eslint/no-warning-comments`](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-warning-comments) behavior so you should disable that in favor of using this.

> For projects with legacy branches, such as long term supported older versions, there might be situations where you fix TODOs in the master branch but on the other branches you leave it missing. Choose carefully which projects you would want this feature.

Reviewer: This should be further down. The rule should be explained first. I also thing this paragraph could be clearer written. It doesn't explain **why** it's problematic for legacy branches.

Author: Done

> Supported conditions:

Reviewer: Before listing the conditions, you should better explain what exactly this rule does and what problems it solves.

Reviewer: Generally, the docs here could be improved a lot. And include more specifics.

Author: Done

// TODO [>1, >2]: multiple package versions won't work

// TODO [+react]: when you install `react`, refactor to use it
// TODO [-popura]: when you uninstall `popura` do some stuff

// TODO [read-pkg@>1]: when `read-pkg` version is > 1 don't forget to do this
// TODO [read-pkg@>=5.1.1]: when `read-pkg` version is >= 5.1.1 don't forget to do that

// TODO [engines node>1]: Hopefully you support that and it'll trigger.

// TODO: do it
```

## Pass

```js
// TODO [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?'
// FIXME [2200-12-25]: Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO (lubien) [2200-12-12]: Too long... Can you feel it?
// FIXME [2200-12-25] (lubien): Too long... Can you feel it?

// TODO [-read-pkg]: We actually use this. If we remove this package I'll error.
// TODO [+popura]: I think we wont need a broken package.

// TODO [semver@>1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.
// TODO [semver@>=1000]: Welp hopefully we wont get at that.

// TODO [2200-12-25, +popura, semver>1000]: Combo.

// TODO [engines node>100]: Just you wait for this version.

/*
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Yet
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Another
 * TODO [2200-12-25]: Way
 */
```

## Options

### ignoreDatesOnPR

> Disables time checks during pull requests. Default: `true`.

Reviewer: This should make it clear **why** it's beneficial to disable the time checks on pull requests.

Author: Done

# Add expiration conditions to TODO comments

Makes it possible to pass arguments to TODO, FIXME and XXX comments to trigger ESLint.

From [ESLint's documentation](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-warning-comments):

> Developers often add comments to code which is not complete or needs review.

TODO comments are useful when a piece of code needs some work.
Unfortunately these can be easily forgotten as it's easy to forget to

> track them, leaving dangling tasks to be found at later random moments.

Reviewer: Don't hard-wrap.

Author: Done
